The M16 and the G11 are the only burst fire weapons in the game.
"But which one is better?" You may ask.
In this video we're going to have a look at the
burst fire goodness of the
M16 and the G11.
Well statistically they are both very alike in terms of damage output.
But as with any gun in the game,
each rifle
has it's own advantages and disadvantages over the other.
First thing you will notice is the difference in
crosshair size, without
steady aim of course.
Now onto some hip fire spread tests.
And here you can see the differences in spread are quite clear.
From this you may now realise why the G11 has that 48
round mag and slightly
lower damage per shot than the M16.
The smaller crosshair of the G11 makes it a half
decent run and gun weapon,
the spread is quite low.
The M16 could easily be used for the same purpose, although you may
not be
guaranteed the kill due to the spread being somewhat large.
At point blank range, then you should'nt really have any issues
with getting the kill, although you may need
all 3 shots to connect for the
guy to go down....unless they have already been injured beforehand.
Also due to both weapons being burst fire, it may be slightly uneven
ground
when going against other players using fully automatic weapons
...or the Ak74u.
Accuracy is everything when using these weapons and we all
know that getting
shot throws off your accuracy.
Ideally you want to be at a decent range from your enemy to have a better
chance of
getting the kill but you'll barely get any kills from firing from
the hip at range.
Well there's iron sights for a reason so let's use them.
As you can see that each rifle is pretty
accurate, and the recoil is quite
manageable
If you were to shoot someone at this range while looking
down the sights,
theres a 9/10 chance they will die.
If they don't...then it's probably lag or somethin'...I dunno.
If you choose to use either gun like this, then I would go for the
red dot
sight or reflex sight or maybe even the ACOG scope for the M16.
The G11 on the other hand, has only 2 attachments
available so I would go
for the low power scope.
I doubt you would want to use the variable zoom
scope
when you're this close...unless you can quickscope like a pro.
While on the subject of attachments and pimping out your guns in
general.
The M16 has many more options for customising, such as:
4 scopes, a grenade launcher, flamethrower, shotgun, suppressor ,dual mags and extended mags.
So there seems to be much more versitility with the M16 due to the
number of
possible attachments in contrast to the 2 scopes for the G11.
But with these ADS test results then I'm guessing most people, like
myself
would choose to but a scope on either rifle.
But again you'll notice that the G11 seems to be
much more accurate due to the lack of recoil.
Ok, I'll admit that the last test was a little pointless, chances are that
you will be using
the M16 or G11 from a good distance away, so lets move
back a little shall we?
Well, not exactly that further back, but it'll
do for the sake of this video.
From here we should get a much better
idea of the recoil of each gun.
You may already have noticed the M16 has slightly higher recoil
than the G11 as it kicks upwards
more, while the G11 is a little more centered...or spreaded out recoil....or whatever you call it...
Going for headshots with the M16? No problem just aim for the chest and let
the recoil do the
rest.
With the G11 you may need to aim a little higher due to having less recoil.
But really in general you shouldn't really have any issues with the
recoil
on either weapon it is quite low for both.
In terms of damage at this range, you may need to
use 2 bursts to kill
rather than only one.
With the M16 this may not be the case due it's slightly higher damage per
shot than the G11
and if you choose to use a suppressor with the M16, again
it's effective range will suffer.
And uh...please excuse the Atari-esque shot markings, the picture got a little pixelated.
Again it can be seem that from even at this range that
the G11 seems to be slightly more accurate than the M16.
This doesn't make the G11 any better than
the M16.
Both weapons have there own advantages.
The M16 for example can kill with less shots
(at range), while the G11 is more accurate.
So it's up to you.
What do you prefer? More accuracy or
more power?
Leave a comment below nd thanks for watching :)